[Music]
the truth about the mysterious Gosha
has been revealed there are many untold
secrets and inexplicable mysteries in
this world for centuries a ghost ship
has been sailing on the oceans bringing
bad luck to any poor soul that sets eyes
on it this ship is the Flying Dutchman
the most notorious and legendary vessel
of all time not so long ago scientists
announced that they'd solve the Enigma
of the Flying Dutchman only did they
really before we set sail on this
ghostly adventure hit the subscribe
button and ring the notification bell to
join us on the bright side on July 11th
1881 the HMS piccante was sailing near
the shores of Australia young Prince
George who is to become king george v 30
years later and his older brother Prince
Albert Victor were on board that ship at
4:00 a.m. the crew saw a strange red
light in the distance in that light The
Flying Dutchman appeared on the waves 13
people witnessed it but by the time the
becan t reached the place where the ship
had first been spotted well there was no
sign that a vessel had ever been there
however a tragedy that struck soon after
convinced the seamen that they'd seen
the infamous ghost ship later that same
morning the crew member hood first
noticed the mysterious vessel fell from
the top mast he didn't survive there
have been other sightings of the Flying
Dutchman Nicholas Montserrat the author
famous for his novel the cruel sea saw
the ghost ship in the Pacific Ocean this
happened during World War two when he
was serving as an officer of the Royal
Navy the crew of a German submarine also
noticed the Flying Dutchman during the
Second World War this time the ghost
ship was sailing the waters of the Suez
Canal in 1939 inhabitants of Cape Town
South Africa reported that they'd seen
the ship going under full sail then all
of a sudden it disappeared into thin air
and of course spongebob has had his own
encounters with the wily ghost named
after the mystery ship few people know
that behind the story of the Flying
Dutchman there was a real ship according
to most sources it was the vessel of
Captain Hendrik van der decken who was
often called the Dutchman the ships sank
in 1641 but many sailors claimed to have
seen it afterward and each time the
encounter served as a bad omen captain
van der Decken made a dangerous voyage
from Holland to the Far East Indies to
buy some rare and exotic goods after
several close calls he finally made it
to his destination the crew made all the
necessary repairs while the ship was
docked and then they all set off for
home
when they were passing by the southern
coast of Africa the captain realized
that it would be a perfect idea to
create a settlement next to the Cape of
Good Hope it could give a much-needed
rest area for travellers and provide
them with a break from the stormy seas
but as the ship was rounding the Cape a
powerful Gale descended on it the crew
tried to persuade captain van der Decken
to turn around when they didn't succeed
a rebellion started but the captain got
rid of the leaders and ordered his men
to stay the course however the ship
never did reached the shore people say
that the Flying Dutchman is cursed to
sail the seas and oceans forever and the
one to blame for this tragic destiny is
Captain van der Decken himself according
to one legend there was a young couple
on board the ship that was going to
Holland the captain took a liking to the
girl and got rid of her fiance not
surprisingly this did not help his
chances the brokenhearted lady then
disappeared one night when the ship was
close to the Cape of Good Hope it fell
into a terrible storm superstitious
sailors started to blame their captain
but he announced that nobody would go
ashore until they rounded the Cape even
if it took ages and the voice from the
sky thundered so be it there are other
versions of this legend for example
according to one of them the whole crew
of the Dutch merchant ship caught a
terrible disease no port agreed to give
shelter to the ship because people were
afraid that the infection would spread
that's why this vessel along with its
whole crew is still drifting across the
waters another legend says that one day
the crew of the flying dutchman was
hurrying to get home and refused to
rescue a sinking ship this heartless act
put a curse on the Dutch ship according
to some people the ship can rid itself
of the curse if the captain goes ashore
and finds a girl who will agree to
become his wife
good luck with that others believe that
there's some magic word that can lift
the curse and let the flying dutchman
and its crew rest in peace some seamen
are convinced that the ship led by the
immortal captain van der Decken guides
other vessels off course as a result
they crash against reefs or on
underwater rocks but what does modern
science have to say about all this talk
of ghost ships and curses well all the
sightings of the Flying Dutchman can be
explained by a phenomenon called fata
morgana this is basically a mirage and
it was named after the sorceress Morgan
la Fey also known as Morgana that lived
in the times of King Arthur people
believed that she used her magic to
create mirages of false islands or
ghostly castles in the air' this way she
lured sailors to their demise fata
morgana happens when light bends due to
different air temperatures the surface
of the water provides perfect conditions
for the appearance of this anomaly have
you ever seen a shimmery image over a
hot asphalt road it occurs when heat
waves rise from its surface the same
phenomenon takes place in the sea - you
may notice ships forming in the distance
but it's nothing more than a play of
light as for the Flying Dutchman its
mirages reflect ships that are in fact
far away beyond the horizon the curve of
the earth makes the light bend in just
the right way to create this illusion
there are several other types of mirages
that can confuse and scare anyone take a
sundog for instance this phenomenon
makes bright spots of light appear on
one or both sides of the Sun this effect
is caused by light passing through ice
crystals it gets refracted through them
and looks as if it's coming from
different sources desert Mirage happens
when light bends and moves through
warmer air that's less dense so
mirages often appear as bodies of water
that lure thirsty travelers one of the
creepiest looking mirages is the brach
inspector this phenomenon was named
after the highest peak in Germany's
Hartz mountains so you can assume that
this site is reserved just for mountain
climbers what you'd see is a giant
humanoid figure that suddenly appears in
the haze but don't worry that's not an
alien ready to abduct you it's just your
own shadow when the Sun shines around a
person at high altitudes it creates a
halo like glow the shadow seems to be
moving due to the movement of clouds
light pillars are unnaturally huge beams
of light shooting up into the sky this
phenomenon also occurs when light gets
reflected off ice crystals in the cold
air that's why this anomaly mostly
happens in cold climates in the winter
Omega Sun is a mirage that occurs during
sunsets in this case when the Sun is
just over the horizon it takes the shape
of the Greek letter Omega the legs of
the letter appear when warm water heats
the cool air above its surface
this phenomenon is particularly visible
when the waters are calm
well scientists are probably right
chances are that fata morgana and other
visual illusions like it did play tricks
on sailors minds but what about those
cases when witnesses went crazy or lost
their lives after encountering the
flying dutchman people of science
consider these tragedies mere
coincidences or simply the result of
psychosomatic trauma that developed when
seamen couldn't explain what they'd seen
[Music]
in what do you believe is there really a
curse go ship sailing the water
somewhere out there or is it just a
mirage share your theories in the
comments below remember to give this
video a like share it with your friends
and click subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]